Proposed 0.11 docs (#727)
encode/httpx: docs/async.md

> # Async Client

Reviewer: I think I like the title proposed in the navigation better… Matches `HTTP/2 Support` as well:

```suggestion
# Async Support
```

Author: Good call, yup!

HTTPX offers a standard synchronous API by default, but also gives you
the option of an async client if you need it.

Async is a concurrency model that is far more efficient than multi-threading,
and can provide significant performance benefits and enable the use of
long-lived network connections such as WebSockets.

If you're working with an async web framework then you'll also want to use an
async client for sending outgoing HTTP requests.

## Making Async requests

To make asynchronous requests, you'll need an `AsyncClient`.

```python
>>> async with httpx.AsyncClient() as client:
>>>     r = await client.get('https://www.example.com/')
>>> r
<Response [200 OK]>
```

!!! tip

>     Use [IPython](https://ipython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to try this code interactively, as it supports executing `async`/`await` expressions in the console.

Reviewer: I think we mentioned 3.8+ elsewhere before, so maybe…
```suggestion
    Use [IPython](https://ipython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) or Python 3.8+ with `python -m asyncio` to try this code interactively, as they support executing `async`/`await` expressions in the console.
```

Author: Thanks, yes.

## API Differences

> If you're using streaming responses then there are a few bits of API that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using an async client then there are a few bits of API that
```

use async methods.

### Making requests

The request methods are all async, so you should use `response = await client.get(...)` style for all of the following:

* `AsyncClient.get(url, ...)`
* `AsyncClient.options(url, ...)`
* `AsyncClient.head(url, ...)`
* `AsyncClient.post(url, ...)`
* `AsyncClient.put(url, ...)`
* `AsyncClient.patch(url, ...)`
* `AsyncClient.delete(url, ...)`
* `AsyncClient.request(method, url, ...)`
* `AsyncClient.send(request, ...)`

### Opening and closing clients

Use `async with httpx.AsyncClient()` if you want a context-managed client...

```python
async with httpx.AsyncClient() as client:
    ...
```

> Alternatively, use `await clien.aclose()` if you want to close a client explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, use `await client.aclose()` if you want to close a client explicitly:
```

```python
client = httpx.AsyncClient()
...
await client.aclose()
```

### Streaming responses

The `AsyncClient.stream(method, url, ...)` method is an async context block.

```python
>>> client = httpx.AsyncClient()
>>> async with client.stream('GET', 'https://www.example.com/') as response:
>>>     async for chunk in r.aiter_content():
>>>         ...
```

The async response streaming methods are:

* `Response.aread()` - For conditionally reading a response inside a stream block.
* `Response.aiter_content()` - For streaming the response content as bytes.
* `Response.aiter_text()` - For streaming the response content as text.
* `Response.aiter_lines()` - For streaming the response content as lines of text.
* `Response.aiter_raw()` - For streaming the raw response bytes, without applying content decoding.
* `Response.aclose()` - For closing the response. You don't usually need this, since `.stream` block close the response automatically on exit.

### Streaming requests

> When sending a request body with an `AsyncClient` instance, it is invalid to use a bytes generator, but it is valid to use an async bytes generator...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When sending a streaming request body with an `AsyncClient` instance, you should use an async butes generator instead of a bytes generator:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```

async def upload_bytes():
    ...  # yield byte content

> client.post(url, data=upload_bytes())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
await client.post(url, data=upload_bytes())
```

```

## Supported async environments

HTTPX supports either `asyncio` or `trio` as an async environment.

By default it will auto-detect which of those two to use as the backend
for socket operations and concurrency primitives.

You can also explicitly select a backend by instantiating a client with the
`backend` argument...

```python
client = httpx.AsyncClient(backend='auto')     # Autodetection. The default case.
client = httpx.AsyncClient(backend='asyncio')  # Use asyncio as the backend.
client = httpx.AsyncClient(backend='trio')     # Use trio as the backend.
```

### [AsyncIO](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html)

AsyncIO is Python's [built-in library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html)
for writing concurrent code with the async/await syntax.

```python
import asyncio
import httpx

async def main():
    client = httpx.AsyncClient()
    response = await client.get('https://www.example.com/')

>     print(response)

Reviewer: Shouldn't we be encouraging the `async with` syntax here?

I'm not even sure why this runs fine without a "an open stream is being garbage collected" error, since the keepalive connection should still be open and have to be closed off. It does raise a warning:

```console
$ python -Wd debug/example.py
<Response [200 OK]>
sys:1: ResourceWarning: unclosed <socket.socket fd=9, family=AddressFamily.AF_INET6, type=SocketKind.SOCK_STREAM, proto=6, laddr=('2a01:cb04:49:9800:4128:7fd2:96fd:60d0', 50895, 0, 0), raddr=('2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946', 443, 0, 0)>
ResourceWarning: Enable tracemalloc to get the object allocation traceback
/Users/florimond/.pyenv/versions/3.8.0/lib/python3.8/asyncio/sslproto.py:321: ResourceWarning: unclosed transport <asyncio.sslproto._SSLProtocolTransport object at 0x103656160>
  _warn(f"unclosed transport {self!r}", ResourceWarning, source=self)
ResourceWarning: Enable tracemalloc to get the object allocation traceback
/Users/florimond/.pyenv/versions/3.8.0/lib/python3.8/asyncio/selector_events.py:684: ResourceWarning: unclosed transport <_SelectorSocketTransport fd=9>
  _warn(f"unclosed transport {self!r}", ResourceWarning, source=self)
ResourceWarning: Enable tracemalloc to get the object allocation traceback
```

(*We* may know that there are *some* cases when it just happens to be fine to not close the client — in this case it's not — but I really think we should encourage users to always ensure the client gets closed at some point.)

Author: Yeah good call.

from starlette.routing import Route

async def hello():
    return HTMLResponse("Hello World!")

app = Starlette(routes=[Route("/", hello)])
```

We can make requests directly against the application, like so:

```python
>>> import httpx
>>> async with httpx.AsyncClient(app=app) as client:
...     r = await client.get('http://example/')
...     assert r.status_code == 200
...     assert r.text == "Hello World!"
```

For some more complex cases you might need to customise the ASGI dispatch. This allows you to:

* Inspect 500 error responses rather than raise exceptions by setting `raise_app_exceptions=False`.
* Mount the ASGI application at a subpath by setting `root_path`.
* Use a given client address for requests by setting `client`.

For example:

```python
# Instantiate a client that makes ASGI requests with a client IP of "1.2.3.4",
# on port 123.
dispatch = httpx.dispatch.ASGIDispatch(app=app, client=("1.2.3.4", 123))
async with httpx.AsyncClient(dispatch=dispatch) as client:
    ...
```

See [the ASGI documentation](https://asgi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/specs/www.html#connection-scope) for more details on the `client` and `root_path` keys.

## Unix Domain Sockets

> The async client provides support for connect through a unix domain socket via the `uds` parameter. This is useful when making requests to a server that is bound to a socket file rather than an IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The async client provides support for connecting through a unix domain socket via the `uds` parameter. This is useful when making requests to a server that is bound to a socket file rather than an IP address.
```
